README.md, before:

# My Fourth Challenge: Create a Readme Generator

## Description
This challenge helps the user create a readme.md file using command prompt


### This is my first Node js challenge: To help the user generate a Readme for a project. 

![password-generator](https://github.com/JescelJames/js-password-generator/assets/105643185/d3ec2426-1ec9-4366-a7d6-d43468e68510)


- Challenge Link: https://jesceljames.github.io/js-password-generator/

- My motivation:  To build a password generator that requires input from user such as amount of characters (must be from 8 - 128 characters) using lower case letters, upper case letters, numbers, and symbols. 
- Why I took this challege: This is my first JavaScript challenge that required functions, ifs, while loop, prompt, confirm, getElementById, addEventListener, parseInit, math.floor, and math.random.
- What the challenge solved:  The user can create a random password based on having the ability to select the length and type(letters, numbers, symbols) of characters.


### What I learned:  

1. Make sure that branch is consistently add, commit, push on a branch.  
2. Before exiting a branch, use git status to see if all has been add, commit, and pushed. 
3. Be aware of what branch i'm working on.  I made multiple mistake working on the main branch.
4. That arrow function can be quite confusing at first, but you get to get used to it.
5. That const and let offer better flexibility
6. That functional loops such as forEach, and map can grab data in different ways
7. That template literals offer powerful way to put elements together.
8. That process.argv grabs the data starting at index[2].
9. That file system fs, is a module inside nodejs. Needs require method to pull it. Can use fs.readFile, fs.appendFile, and fs.writeFile 
10. That ternary operator syntax:  condition ? expressionIfTrue : expressionIfFalse  e.g. (err) => err ? console.error(err) : console.log('Commit logged!')
11. That module.exports from one file need require method from another file to grab the data.  It's important to have ./ for local file. 
12. Read the documents in npmjs.com helps tremendously.
13. That .gitignore with node_modules ignore in node_modules folder.
14. That package.json is object with properties.


## Code Description

The HTML and CSS in this code was prebuilt.  I made most of my updates and changes in the .js file. 


## Credits

#### My Instructors:
- Ben Wright 
- Max Ohsawa 

#### My Academic Advisor
- Mike Sweeney

#### My Classmates
- Who are smarter than me, and willing to help at all times.

#### Npm Inquirer
https://www.npmjs.com/package/inquirer


#### License Links
https://gist.github.com/lukas-h/2a5d00690736b4c3a7ba


#### Music while coding:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tkgmYIsflSU&ab_channel=ChillMusicLab


#### Medium Articles
https://medium.com/swlh/how-to-make-the-perfect-readme-md-on-github-92ed5771c061


#### Stackoverflow.com
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67013842/trying-to-place-license-badge-within-readme-md-using-node-js-but-getting-error-a





## Contact
For any additional questions about this project, contact me at:
Email: jesceljames@gmail.com
Github: https://github.com/jesceljames@gmail.com

Commit message:

update readme code description, what I learned, and motivation

README.md, after:

# My Fourth Challenge: Create a Readme Generator

## Description
This challenge helps the user create a readme.md file using command prompt


### This is my first Node js challenge: To help the user generate a Readme for a project. 

![password-generator](https://github.com/JescelJames/js-password-generator/assets/105643185/d3ec2426-1ec9-4366-a7d6-d43468e68510)


- Challenge Link: https://jesceljames.github.io/

- My motivation:  To build a readme generator with user input from terminal.
- Why I took this challege: To learn to create a file using prompts from terminal.
- What the challenge solved:  The user can create a high quality readme.md file from prompts from terminal.  


### What I learned:  

1. Make sure that branch is consistently add, commit, push on a branch.  
2. Before exiting a branch, use git status to see if all has been add, commit, and pushed. 
3. Be aware of what branch i'm working on.  I made multiple mistake working on the main branch.
4. That arrow function can be quite confusing at first, but you get to get used to it.
5. That const and let offer better flexibility
6. That functional loops such as forEach, and map can grab data in different ways
7. That template literals offer powerful way to put elements together.
8. That process.argv grabs the data starting at index[2].
9. That file system fs, is a module inside nodejs. Needs require method to pull it. Can use fs.readFile, fs.appendFile, and fs.writeFile 
10. That ternary operator syntax:  condition ? expressionIfTrue : expressionIfFalse  e.g. (err) => err ? console.error(err) : console.log('Commit logged!')
11. That module.exports from one file need require method from another file to grab the data.  It's important to have ./ for local file. 
12. Read the documents in npmjs.com helps tremendously.
13. That .gitignore with node_modules ignore in node_modules folder.
14. That package.json is object with properties.


## Code Description

This code can be accessed in terminal by running index.js file. type: node index.js in terminal and prompts will appear to create a readme file.


## Credits

#### My Instructors:
- Ben Wright 
- Max Ohsawa 

#### My Academic Advisor
- Mike Sweeney

#### My Classmates
- Who are smarter than me, and willing to help at all times.

#### Npm Inquirer
https://www.npmjs.com/package/inquirer


#### License Links
https://gist.github.com/lukas-h/2a5d00690736b4c3a7ba


#### Music while coding:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tkgmYIsflSU&ab_channel=ChillMusicLab


#### Medium Articles
https://medium.com/swlh/how-to-make-the-perfect-readme-md-on-github-92ed5771c061


#### Stackoverflow.com
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67013842/trying-to-place-license-badge-within-readme-md-using-node-js-but-getting-error-a





## Contact
For any additional questions about this project, contact me at:
Email: jesceljames@gmail.com
Github: https://github.com/jesceljames@gmail.com
